HOW TO RUN THE APPLICATION

Step 1

First, get XAMPP. You’ll need to get an appropriate version 
for your operating system from the Apache Friends’ official site.

Step 2

Next, you should install XAMPP on your computer. The most common practice is to install it on 
the C drive
To install XAMPP
double-click on the installer file you downloaded. 
Click on the Run button to start the installation. 
Follow the installation wizard to complete the installation. 
In the Select Components section, you can opt to leave some components 
out if you’re sure you won’t need them. However, it is recommended to 
keep everything as is and install the full version.

The default location is C:\xampp.

Step 3

In this step, you’ll create the project folder where you’ll save the PHP file
To do that, go to your XAMPP folder. 
your copy of XAMPP is installed on the C drive.

Once you get to the XAMPP’s main folder, go to the htdocs folder. There, create a new folder 
and name it after the file you’ll copy into it. Alternatively, 
you can name it “NewProject,” “Project 1,” or give it any other name.

Step 4
Launch XAMPP. You can open it via the status bar icon or search for it in the 
Start menu if you’re on a Windows computer.
Once the app opens, you will see its Control Panel. Click on the Start button in the Apache row. 
This will launch the Apache server. 
The Apache label in the Module column will turn green and you’ll see a message in 
the log at the bottom of the Control Panel informing you that the server is running.

Now, open your browser and type “localhost” into the address bar (omit the quotations).
You should see the “localhost – Welcome to XAMPP” option right below the address bar. 
Click on it.
You will be redirected to localhost/dashboard. Replace the dashboard part with the 
name of the folder where your PHP file is located. In our case it looks like this: 
localhost/NewProject.
You will see the list of files in the said directory. Click on your PHP file.
If everything’s OK, you should see your PHP file open in your browser.
